[Music]
[Applause]
will hide each other a special 2004
spirit pass on security
[Music]
and I think my illness limits of me
tomorrow
ladies and gentlemen and all our
frequent flyers
[Music]
so no jungle default Devon feel I can be
under sidewalk you should we love make
sure she'll do a neo we talk later
we're in Xinjiang a place unlike
anywhere on earth it's home to the
Wiegand mostly Muslim minority who've
lived here for centuries shinjang has
long been a pressure point where China's
ethnic tensions have played out
but in the last decade handful of
violent incidents have disturbed the
region it's been three days since bloody
riots broke out pitting ethnic we're
Muslims against the dominant Han Chinese
China blames this unrest on Islamic
extremism and ethnic separatism their
response to detain over 1 million people
in massive new facilities where they're
taken for so-called re-education the
government has presented these as joyful
training schools where they're
correcting extremist behavior for the US
Defense Department has called them
concentration camps in an effort to
clamp down on information leaking out of
the region journalists have been
prevented from reporting freely here so
my colleague and I traveled to shinjang
as travel bloggers in the hopes we'd
slip under the radar and get to speak
with Rieger people still living here we
snuck in with hidden cameras most of
what we captured was filmed secretly
yeah
[Music]
shell
then I'm gonna have to be
[Music]
there are checkpoints every few hundred
yards even entering the small bazaar
your bags go through airport type
security and your bodies and faces are
scanned its leaguers who are stopped and
so far everyone we've met seems to think
I'm reader weaker people look different
to the Han Chinese who make up over 90
percent of China's population instead we
cos are ethnically Turkic Muslims with
close ties to Central Asia
[Music]
the world's most sophisticated
surveillance technology is being
implemented here with meticulous
diligence among the hundreds of flashing
lights suspended from the ceiling a rows
of surveillance cameras literally every
two meters I counted at least 40 just in
a small room watching over every
conversation
[Applause]
we've decided to travel and the build-up
to Chinese New Year because and in part
because we had that security you should
be a little bit more lacks traveling
around the region but it doesn't mean
that there's about a million people
trying to get on a train we had the
outside the main city
Regas are essentially living in open
prisons in places where surveillance is
even tighter
so we took a 17 hour train ride to the
ancient city of kashgar to find out if
that rang true we splurged on a sleeper
cabin which we wound up sharing with us
friendly han chinese woman great Sammy
and there wasn't any man you booked it
and it is done with a deli
don't eat it Henchard a good day was him
for 13 maybe and a $21 whore she shouted
up
so so we took an entire year to freshmen
this is a punji Young Saeng to do
certain certain doís to know them hang
out any hating any happiness we capital
G personal Christmas in the ceramic
which I'll cancel potential and always
earn you know some tunic so I jump in
the defense'll ah honeyy ET the audience
what again so with him yeah normal
questions has started we apologize
nutritive to you we learn by shore with
in calcium because the psychogenic
family can become eternally from a
little cousin boss
I spent the journey walking up and down
the train and hanging out between the
carriages and smoking endless packs of
Chinese cigarettes in hopes of striking
up conversations on several of my
cigarette missions I walked past a young
Riga man
he kept catching my eye when everyone
had gone to sleep and the carriages fell
silent he stopped me we've disguised his
voice for his own protection
[Music]
we arrived in Kashgar surveillance
cameras were everywhere what day is it
today
Wednesday 100,000 new police officers
have been hired across the region from
2016 to 2017 alone and it shows
a lot of the officers who manned the
thousands of checkpoints or wiggers
themselves wandering around the city
barely any Weger would look at me or
even say hello
anyone could be an informant
[Music]
to film this street so there's not so
obvious that what I'm actually trying to
film is the girls behind me but I'm
having some insane security twice a day
in Kashgar shopkeepers street cleaners
and delivery people take part in
security drills
[Music]
we got off easy this time or the piece
let us go after deleting our footage but
knowing we're now being watched we
didn't want to push it so we looked
around for the most conspicuous tourist
activity we could find
with me this feels very wrong I'm just
walking around the cultural heart of
cash cow city with the goings camel
throwing peace signs at the camera
[Music]
we were desperate to talk to the locals
to understand how this once vibrant city
had become so ghostly so we hit the town
and wound up in a dreary bar between
songs we struck up a conversation with a
couple of Chinese guys Oh
over the next hour and a half one after
another piece arrived the most senior
officer spoke English with a crisp
British accent and deleted a bunch of
our footage we insisted over and over
that we were just tourists not
journalists he seemed to believe our
story then finally merci it was 12:30
a.m. one walked back to the hotel
the streets were dead then I saw
movement
[Music]
so we're just watching as a bunch of
policemen are marching 8-week the men
young men all the way down the street
so PlayStation will just wash things for
us so a minutes or so much in that
security nothing else affects their job
and its whiteness just impossible to
stay even on forever
contact with serious risk my suspicion
[Music]
Saguna domestic in religion is only a
few we girls who've been detained have
managed to escape the country in the
last few years in Istanbul we joined a
rare gathering between a group of former
detainees to talk about their
experiences together for the first time
they answered the questions we couldn't
ask while we're in China well possible
shared DNA innovation in Vedic you never
get love me mr. cuddles Peninsula
Minister Minister Paul D my Allah my
Allah born I'm a secular having it in
all dk1 all the kids to take any texture
day and yet it was a shock to believe it
blah I shall kill the Kamera they may
not mean on Gandhi I know Salomon again
wash mutt Panda they don't know nasty
one
inanimate of that very million use me in
Sun Valley unless people did that shoes
hurt enormous Kochiyama Van Alden amidst
nature lover oh you guys spent time in
the camps I mean what was your crime
what were you each take it in for local
and mmm look at did you get emotional
witches don't let purchase ice-cold on
it until yes yes see ottoman the
snowland serve don't come in on an
embassy
I totally manga number image Boulanger
night at three don't let the party lush
terror Solana - kill - Terra Australis
TM originated on going on the scrimmage
holiday mana mana theorist again member
hot belly
Cooper Haji terrorist so this is from
the state security have you been
involved in terrorism
Baloch illness knuckle their gender
prediction member luolan chuckerman
shellfish emulation biscuit Lucia what
were the similarities in terms of
actually being taken to these camps
assent Monda that's that the kitchen
table I will no mass the kitchen
operational master
Solano is the recessive I ponder kapamas
Trojan Arabism build another logical
Sirocco so much early on the caliche
Ohana was to get the tire
Tamagotchi in as partnerships total
school the major problem is may you
contend on jimmao Shin Dongwoo cones and
touching now he means Oh question yet my
mentor bashful Jocelyn in zapathon
you were subordinate function occurs
women around the knowledgeable
equesticle Ankara in Sinai Charlotte a
shrinking machine status judge Nangle
Imogen trash Krishna a megillah'
commercial quite adorable smaller
machine chorus called and again the
elimination bra really comparison Denman
communism system is the key aerobic
insulin prosperous Helena
magnatum Hammond asana autonomous on
calipower chicken all at the communism
socialism the ayah says it much more
lies
[Music]
accompany mommy one color pocket Danica
in 2016
Calvin was seven months pregnant when
she left shinjang with her husband and
two year old son Mohammad van der Luyden
reminisce can be do meaning King
Mohammed not today old is she 19 she was
truly an innkeeper and stepfather
vegetable of making it cheaper family
some native to need other high atop
Mishnah get my skin and step in obtain a
little bit harder
what was your plan for being reunited
with your family when you left
shin-chan I'm sorry you mean icky icky
tap and Shabana no Passport Panama but
an ad in a kill the wrong philosophy
again to carry on basic Rankine our
today
Bandra Milan is Karishma dead chicken
Nick and Emily on that body
[Music]
Calvados husband was detained after he
returned to shinjang he's now serving a
ten year sentence for travelling
overseas and suspected terrorism leaving
five of her young children without their
parents what do you think happened to
your kids
sure Tom cattlemen again bruxism named
their Hooton the comparator billy
sheehan about devilish larger than that
of a video and keg and thinking member
Amish mafia treat you to tea instead -
mm - no she think this might have been
taken inside an orphanage children in
Maternity India on end each axis the
business that we love Laura a kid can
learn a lot about Laura Michelle Norris
pumpkin
[Music]
do you have any other information at all
about your children and yet mr. clever
your meaning is an inky HM no no more
important little help and top-up chattel
Allah Allah : racially it's a sudden
kiss with telephone atoms I should say
Latin meaning column name a circadian
jasmine' entitle Allah Allah
hold on a minute
[Laughter]
[Music]
we wanted to know whether the rumors of
kids being sent to state-run
institutions were true we found the
original video of Calvin ORS daughter
from social media the user had uploaded
other videos that also look like schools
we tracked those locations to
kindergardens in Houghton a city nearly
300 miles from Cal burners hometown we
delved into Houghton Prefecture
government records which showed that in
2017 alone the number of kindergardens
more than doubled this was at the same
time that China began sending hundreds
of thousands of weaker adults to the
camps we identified several more
compounds in Houghton all built around
the same time and with the same
distinctive features large walled off
complexes with colorful turrets and
brightly painted patterns on the ground
we wanted to head back to shinjang to
investigate knowing we were already on
the government's radar the risks were
higher
[Music]
from all this Han Chinese businessman
told us it seemed like common knowledge
that the government was taking children
of detainees in as if they were also
news mapping out the GPS coordinates we
had we set out to find the locations we
identified as possible orphanages
[Music]
so we're just walking down this really
pretty street in the Houghton and kind
of similar vibes to cash guy I mean the
streets are abandoned a lot of padlock
houses seems like a lot of people have
disappeared
[Music]
it's interesting just in this small
neighborhood we passed three mosques
even though we're actually here during
the month of Ramadan I can't hear a
speedo call to prayer
[Music]
is coming back to the best building that
our GPS coordinates are worth two
racquets
[Music]
we wait until the end of the day hoping
to see kids being picked up by parents
but no one entered or exited the
premises
sensing we're being watched we sped out
our search for the remaining fee
buildings over the following few days
trying to get a little closer to the
school but there's this massive brick
wall with barbed wire fencing all around
it and they're just making it really
really difficult to get to
I mean it's obvious what we're doing
here you should just get out of it very
quickly and see kids in there
[Music]
so the best we can do is walk past this
facility but it is really bizarre that
there are kids there on a Sunday which
suggests that this is not just a regular
school he is now trying to get to
another one of these buildings
[Music]
there it is I can see people moving
inside Oh
[Music]
oh yeah
we just mean side with two minutes and
then a piece of now come which was twice
to check on our past here we go again
okay around the bar with Helena
Mayweather nigga eyes just he's so so
hard it's a very effective mechanism
that the government had in place able to
prevent any information from getting out
it wasn't just the piece in uniforms
we're also being followed by this white
car and this gold car often by up to six
plain-clothed police officers and 24/7
we always had one man in particular
subtle as he was we spotted him stalking
us wherever we went
or just going slightly ridiculous now
I'm gonna ask this guy where's gayness
yeah yeah you wish my Egypt good to warm
you wish me to control woman I know
you're not on the phone
you was I don't
you know
this is literally the first time you
walked away from me you've always been
following me just to eat Cerny Sakuya
this is very strange behaviour which I
don't you idiot eat way we will meet
woman meeting can Donny don't ahem that
fun gray shimmer
we sound grown woman Perelman
[Music]
total denial our friend continue to
follow us at a distance making it
difficult to talk to people but on a
nearby street one young weaker girl did
speak for her own protection
we've hidden her face
what is wrong we didn't pandering to
pacer and Emma the teacher had Shiva go
to general funny destroy show your hand
or Heights your foot they along another
road in another abandoned village yet
another multicolored castle appeared
[Music]
there's no doubt that in fighting Chang
and in these schools a massive social
engineering program is underway the
Chinese government's goals are clear for
this next generation of weekers to not
be beggars to break all links to their
culture their religion even their
families until the only identity they
have left is Chinese on one of our last
days in Xinjiang we passed an elementary
school full of weaker children
[Music]
before anyone could stop us we got a
fleeting glimpse of how the Chinese
government wants them to think
but it was just a fleeting glimpse
[Music]
you